Those poor sight seeing aliens.
They're out and about in the universe enjoying
themselves when they're hit upon by a meteor
storm.
It's time for damage control.
Help guide the aliens to their rescue ships
with the use of paddles that deflect, bounce,
drip, and contain all manner of other strange
properties as you navigate around the meteor
fields.
One of the most amusing things about Puzzle
Rocket is also one of the most horrifying
if you stop to think about it.
The goal of each stage is to get the aliens
from their derelict spacecraft to the rescue
rockets.
Now common sense says you should set up your
paddles before opening the release valve and
jettisoning the aliens into the murky vacuum
of space, but how are you meant to adjust
the paddles to the right trajectory if you
have no way to test them out?
The first order of business each level then
is to flip that lever, allow the limitless
supply of extra terrestrials to expire until
you work out how to fill the limited capacity
of each rocket, possibly collect the stars
scattered around each level, and then move
on to the next stranded ship.
You need to be making a lot of little adjustments
as finding solutions to each level is a game
of finesse.
The amount of paddles you have to work with
are in the bottom left corner, with colors
indicating the property of each paddle, and
a series of circles indicating how many you
have at your disposal.
Paddles when dragged have a radius around
them that can be used to move and rotate them,
but for rotating, your best bet is using the
clockwise and counter-clockwise rotate buttons,
as this grants greater control as you watch
how the angle affects the passage of all those
little aliens.
It's this exactness of paddle placement that
makes the game kind of troublesome however.
There's just too much fine-tuning, and once
the help signs stop suggesting areas for paddle
placement and you're left to your own ingenuity,
there's just more frustration than fun.
Now there will be the type of puzzle gamer
who will jump at all the experimentation possible
in saving these creatures, and it's not to
say that the presentation, level design, and
sheer number of different paddles aren't extremely
well done, it's just we don't see this game
having a broad appeal as it is, and that's
unfortunate as it seems that's what it's aiming
for.